Building the Car
================

Extremely excited when opening the box and checking so many components?
Keep your patience and take it easy. Please note that some details in
the following steps need **CAREFUL** observation. You should
double-check your work based on the figures in the manual after
finishing each step. Don’t worry! Kindly reminders will be given in some
particular steps. Just follow the tutorial step by step. Okay, with no
further ado, now let’s start!

Front Half Chassis
------------------

Assemble the **Front Half Chassis** with four **M3x25 copper standoffs**
and four **M3 nuts** as shown below:

.. image:: media/image208.png

Front Wheels
------------

.. note:: 
    Please pay attention to the direction of Steering Connector before assembling.

Insert an **M4x25 screw** through a **Steering Connector**, 3 **Bearing
Shields**, 3 **Hex Front Wheel Fixing Plates**, and a **front wheel**,
into an **M4 Self-locking Nut** (note the direction) as shown below:

.. image:: media/image209.png

You can use the Cross Socket Wrench to secure the **M4 Self-locking
Nut**, then use the screwdriver to tighten the **M4x25 screw.**

.. image:: media/image52.jpeg

.. note::

    The Self-locking Nut should be screwed tight enough. It would be better
    to tighten the screw until the wheel and Steering Connector cannot move
    first, then loosen the screw a little, so that the Steering Plate can
    just move. Thus, the wheel can turn flexibly when the connection would
    not be too loose.

Assemble the other front wheel in the same way, but bear in mind the
Steering Connector on the wheel should be symmetric with the previous
one:

.. image:: media/image210.png

Now two front wheels have finished assembly.


Steering Part
-------------

Connect the **Steering Linkage** and the **1-arm Rocker Arm** with the
**M1.5x4 Self-tapping Screw**.

.. note::
    Insert it into the FIRST hole of the arm (as indicated by the arrow below) which is the farthest from the gears.

.. image:: media/image211.png

.. note::
    Fasten them as tightly as possible, and then loosen the screw a little so the Steering Linkage can move flexibly.

Upper Plate 
------------

Mount the **M2.5x8 copper standoffs** and **M2.5 nuts** into the **upper
plate** first. Pay attention that the side the protruding prop should
face up.

.. image:: media/image212.png


Battery Holder
--------------

Turn the Upper Plate upside down. Cut the **ribbon** into two halves.
Thread them through the holes on the plate. Pay attention to the
direction and leave one end longer out of the plate for each to remove
the battery easily later.

.. image:: media/image59.png


Fasten the battery holder with two **M3x8 countersunk screws** and two
**M3 nuts**: pay attention to the direction of battery holder’s wire.

.. image:: media/image213.png


Rear Wheels (Screws)
--------------------

Insert four **M3x8 screws** with four **M3x25 copper standoffs**:

.. image:: media/image214.png



PCB Assembly
------------

1) Assemble the **Raspberry Pi** (TF Card inserted) with eight **M2.5x8
   copper standoffs**, then plug the **Robot HATS** onto it.

2) Fix the **Robot HATS** with four **M2.5x6** **screws**.

3) Fix The **PCA9685 PWM Driver**, the **Motor Driver** with eight
   **M2.5x12** **screws and M2.5 nuts** into the **down plate**.

.. image:: media/image215.png


Rear Wheels (Driving)
---------------------

Assemble the two motors to the Back Half Chassis with four **M3x25
screws** and **M3 nuts**. Pay attention to place the motors with wires
inward, providing convenience for connecting the circuit.

.. image:: media/image216.png


Assemble the rear wheels with 4 M3 nuts.

.. image:: media/image217.png


Align the **rear** **wheels** with the motor shaft, and rotate to insert
them gently.

.. image:: media/image218.png


